---
layout: post
title: Goals of 2017
comments: true
---

Year 2017 is the first year in which I start my first full-time job as a data
scientist. Therefore, I want to share with you some goals and expectation about
this year. I try to split the goals into several parts: the goal in my work at
Franprix, the technique of data science, the business analysis, the
communication skill, and the improvement of my language.

## Franprix

Franprix is a dominant grocery store chain of the Groupe Casino, headquartered
in Paris, with over 800 stores and annual turnover of over 1 billion euros. I
joined in the pricing team, my principle mission is to make optimal decision, to
attract more clients and to increase the turnover, with the help of statistical
algorithms and related software. Since I've started working for only two weeks,
currently need to understand, to be familiar with our databases, workflows and
algorithms, and then, contribute to our business.

## Technique

Thanks to working, I get to use some new software.

### Talend

[Talend][Talend] is a software vendor specializing in Big Data Integration. The
company provides big data, Cloud, data integration, data management, Master Data
Management, data quality, data preparation and enterprise application
integration software and services.

During our work, we often use its data integration product to realise the
process ETL(Extract, Transform, Load) with its graphic interface and query SQL.

### Microstrategy

[Microstrategy][Microstrategy] is a provider of business intelligence (BI),
mobile software, and cloud-based services. It uses business intelligence and
predictive analytics to search through and perform analytics on big data from a
variety of sources, including data warehouses, Excel files, and Hadoop
distributions.

At present, we haven't used it yet, but in next steps, we will integrate R and
d3.js in it, and go deeper in data science.

### R

Yes, in addition to Talend and Microstrategy, we also use R, with which I've
already been familiar. Except data integration, statistic algorithms can be
achieved by R, for instance, regression, clustering, association analysis, etc.

For the first two softwares, I need to learn, know well and get hold of them as
soon as possible. For R, I will go deeper into the technology, and finish
reading the book "R in action".

## Business Analysis

Besides the technology, another pretty important point is business thinking. If
we only know technology, we cannot understand the objective of analysis; however,
if we only know business, we cannot make the optimal decision. Nothing but
combining the technology and business thinking together, they can serve each
other and contribute to optimal decision making. Thus, in my career, I will
train my business thinking and remind myself to analyse with business objective.

## Communication Skill

Before analysing, we should know well the context of the requirement, so that we
can analyse in the round. Therefore, I need to communicate with the colleagues
who put forward the requirements, know clearly what they really want, then my
analysis will be useful.

Furthermore, what should a data scientist do after analysing? It's presenting
the results to our colleagues. It sounds easy, but remember, we should simplify
the technical things, present clearly in order to let everyone understand. So,
communication is really important during the work.

## Language

Well, since I work in France, need to speak French everyday, and as what I
talked above, communication is important, so imporve my French level is the
"urgent and important" thing. In addition to talking with colleagues everyday, I
will also listen to the radio, watch TV news and read novels in French.

Moreover, English should not be forgotten, as it becomes more and more important,
I should also improve my English level in the ways above and write blogs as well.

Well, here is my goal for 2017. What is yours?

[Talend]: https://www.talend.com
[Microstrategy]: https://www.microstrategy.com/uk
